A Simple Transference of Consciousness
by Tulku Tsultrim Zangpo
Prayer
hrih rang nang nam dak chöying podrang né
Hrīḥ!  From the palace of the dharmadhātu, the utter purity of my own perception,
dü sum deshek gyalwé chi zuk tso
Embodiment of all the buddhas of past, present future,
nyikmé drowa yong kyi kyab né chok
Supreme refuge for beings of this degenerate age,
palden lama jé la solwa dep
Glorious master, most precious guru, to you I pray!
dak gyü min ching drolwar chin gyi lop
Grant your blessings, so that my mind may be matured and liberated!
zab lam tokpa kyewar chin gyi lop
Grant your blessings, so that I may realize the profound path!
tsé dir dzokchen tokpa tar chin lop
Grant your blessings, so that I may perfect the realization of the Great Perfection in this
very life!
Thus, you should offer prayer.
rang nyi pak chok chenré zik su sal
I appear clearly in the form of noble Avalokiteśvara,
dé yi nying ü ö tsa chiwor zuk
With a channel of light running from my heart's centre to my crown,
yar né pé nyi den la lama jé
At its tip, upon a lotus and sun-disc seat is the lord guru,
sangyé ö pak mé gön lam mer shyuk
Appearing vividly in the form of Amitābha, 'Limitless Light',
nying ü lung kyil den la namshé kyi
And in the centre of my heart, in a circle of wind, is my own consciousness
dak nyi tiklé kar mar sen dum tsam
In the form of white and red sphere, the size of a pea,
hril hril yo shying parwé tsul chen sal
Perfectly round, it pulses and vibrates.
chiwor lamé tukké zer nön gyi
Drawn upwards through the brilliant rays from the heart of the guru at my crown,
yar drang gyalwé tuk dang nyi mé gyur
It merges indivisibly with the victorious buddha's wisdom mind.

hrih nangwa tayé jikten wang chuk dang
Hrīḥ! Amitābha, 'Limitless Light', Avalokiteśvara, 'Lord of the World',
sangwé dakpo gyalsé tso khor la
And Vajrapāṇi, 'Lord of Secrets' – all you buddhas and bodhisattvas together with your retinues,
mi ché tsé chik dépé solwa dep
With unshakeable, single-pointed devotion, I pray to you!
namshé chöying powar chin gyi lop
Grant your blessings so that I may transfer my consciousness into the dharmadhātu!
dömé né luk jenpar ngön gyur chik
Grant your blessings so that I may directly actualize the primordial, natural state!
tar tuk ten si zinpar chin gyi lop
Grant your blessings so that I may seize the ultimate stronghold!
Recite this many times, then:
Transfer your consciousness again and again by uttering "Hikka!" and performing the visualisation
as before. At the end, consider that the buddha at your crown transforms into Amitāyus,
who descends from your crown to remain at the centre of your heart, and settle in a non-conceptual
state.
The one called Tsul wrote this from his meditation room simply to avoid turning down the request
of the devoted old monk Norbu Zangpo.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2015.